# Information Science WG Meeting Nodes

### 2018-09-05
* Started transferring Google Drive content to Github

### 2018-08-28

* IRB approved
* First UIUC study site confirmed, initial meeting 9/11/2018


### 2018-08-24
Peter, Craig

Actions:
* Submit IRB
* Schedule first site meeting
* Send pre-workshop recruitment email
* Transfer Google Drive content to github

Notes
* UIUC MIS student Lucy Chang has accepted RA position
* Need to submit IRB:
   * Interview protocol (done)
   * Recruitment materials (done)
   * Consent forms (standard)
* Need to arrange meeting with study site sometime in next 2-3 weeks
* Can report status at Chicago workshop
* We can hold on the second site (materials) until the workshop to strategize with Materials WG
* Part of study will also include developer interviews
* Need to write and send pre-workshop recruitment email. Can start at the Chicago meeting (face to face is preferred)
* Discussion of public information (i.e, publishing to Github)
   *  Recruitment message on website after IRB
   * Study description
* Other items
   * Potential panel proposal at AGU about translating researcher requirements into infrastructure
   * Potential iConference interaction and engagement/panel
* WG Charge:
   *  Development of personas is the first step
   * Scoping out where in the sciences you can get the best value intervening for reproducibility. Rolling out to long tale sciences isn't a good model. Think about the scope of where to intervene, where to target.
   *  In IS, we need to really sort out replicability, reproducibility, trust  -- problematize and move to a better resolution of what it means.
   * Challenges of persona development; do they really square the circle? are they really useful? do they have a material impact? Are they a boundary object/bridge between the two cultures and to come up with recommendations for practice; develop into a paper; publish; Journal of Computer Supported Cooperative Work.
* Tentative timeline
   * IRB response 8/31
   * Recruitment message send before meeting


### 2018-08-20
Craig Willis, Michal Ondrejcek

* Met to discuss recruiting labs from materials research. MO suggested composing a clearer/more convincing brochure before circulating and contacting Timothy Spila (http://users.mrl.illinois.edu/spila/), MRL staff or Klara Nahrstedt, since 4ceed project has also similarly recruited materials researchers for participation in user studies.

### 2018-08-16
Craig Willis, Peter Darch

* Met to discuss study, particularly to clarify observation requirements


### 2018-08-14

* Contacted Elizabeth Wickes (iSchool lecturer, Carpentry board, formerly with UIUC Research Data Services) about possible involvement in IS WG.

### 2018-08-10

* First site collaboration requests sent to Brown Dog collaborators

### 2018-08-08

* Sent emails to possible first study sites
* Spoke with ISDA project manager about additional potential collaborators.

### 2018-08-07

* Victoria reached out to Brent Roberts about possible participation in study.


### 2018-07-26
Email thread: Peter Darch, Bertram, Janet Eke, Craig Willis

* Peter submitted draft work plan for study

## 2018-07-26
Email thread: Peter Darch, Bertram, Janet Eke, Craig

* Peter submitted student support request


### 2018-07-13
Peter Darch, Craig Willis

Call notes
* Touching base after discussion during 7/10 PI call 
* With WT workshop in September, it would be great if we had something to report for the IS WG
* Discussion of developing "personas"
   * Background: earlier in the project and during last WT All-Hands meeting, there was discussion of creating "personas" similar to those used in DataOne:	 https://github.com/whole-tale/wt-design-docs/issues/32
   * The methods used are a bit involved https://www.dataone.org/personas-methods
   *  Peter thinks that this might be a good place to start
   *  Previous intern focused on the development side of use cases
   *  Two-step or iterative process
   * Need 1-2 students that would be able to identify potential interviewees
   * May be IM masters student/RA opportunity
   * Embed them in a lab to shadow people (postdocs/students)
   * Understand workflows and where they draw data from, rhythms of labs
   * Interviews could be in person or via Skype
   * Peter will provide a brief plan by end of July 2018
   * Will likely require IRB
   * Craig will work with PI team to identify candidate labs/researchers
   * Ideally on UIUC campus, initially
   * Could possibly draw on external collaborators (UC, UCSB/NCEAS, etc)
   * Would likely be able to present something at workshop
   * At least plan/design
   * Report on intern's work from last year

Reviewed proposal narrative regarding IS WG:

> D.6.1 Roles, Teams, People 
> The Information Science working group will bring together information scientists and research data librarians to evaluate engagement with participating science communities (more broadly than the science working groups above) and effectiveness of CI tools in meeting project goals. This group will define existing research practices by evaluating scientists’ personal workflows. The working group will then evaluate how these practices are enhanced by WT capabilities.

> D.6.2 Evaluation and Project Analysis

> The evaluation will include formative, summative, and developmental components. The formative components will inform improvements of project activities. The summative components will assess the quality of the project activities, to determine how well the project goals have been achieved. Developmental aspects of the evaluation involve interactions and facilitated interventions to enable learning and adaptation during the grant period

> ISG will bring together research data librarians and information scientists to evaluate the engagement with the participating scientific communities (the formative components) and the effectiveness of the cyberinfrastructure in meeting project goals (the summative components). Leveraging evaluation methods from Blake & Rendall [26], the ISG will begin by mapping pre-existing research practices within participating scientific communities to better understand scientists’ personal workflows and processes in this project. By clearly articulating project-specific sets of scientific research processes, the team can expose decision points within those processes that represent transitions from one phase to the next and indicate points in the process that may require additional technical services to support a seamless “soup-to-nuts” research and publication pipeline. In this way, the evaluation will help to identify and better understand user needs and requirements (a formative component). This framework will also verify critical junctures in the research process that require the system to explicitly capture provenance information and other metadata in support of reproducibility.

> The developmental aspects of the evaluation will build on two stakeholder alignment surveys conducted by WayMark Systems (one completed in the summer of 2014 and one presently underway). Led by Joel Cutcher-Gershenfeld and Mike Haberman, WayMark Systems leveraged the data from the first stakeholder alignment survey to facilitate a shared vision of success and a charter for the National Data Service. Additional stakeholder surveys will be conducted in 2016 and 2017, focusing on the targeted needs and priorities of relevant stakeholder communities with implications for governance and operations.

> The Information Science Working Group will conduct and analyze the survey in year four followed by a gap analysis based on overall objectives and survey results to identify recommendations for system improvement based on evaluation and analysis. The development feedback from WayMark Systems will be continually integrated with facilitated support for project governance and engagement activities



### 2017-06-03 
Peter, Bertram 

Next actions:
* Bertram to share EarthCube SKOPE talk: example of requirements (focus on provenance and reproducibility) of a particular science community (archaeologists interested in paleoenvironmental reconstruction data) 
* Any logistics issues with internship
* Explore attendance of one Info Sci WG member at DataONE AHM (Tamaya Resort, near ABQ, NM) end of August (Thursday 8/31 and Friday 9/1): ecologists and archaeologists meeting DataONE & WT technologies ⇒ Peter would like to attend

Notes:
* Initial ideas/plan: 
* revisit existing use cases
* interviewing WT team

Plan for internship:
*  learn the existing sets of use cases backward and forward and seek overlap and commonality (quick),
*  initial interviews with members of the WT leadership team and also dev team to understand their reactions to the cases. Might involve going through the cases with them,
* Also, look at the other side, i.e. the scientists. Only just starting to have scientists using the infrastructure. When looking at use cases, can ask how well do these use cases reflect what the scientists are doing? How realistic do they have to be, or how generic should they be? 
*  integrate a new set of cases, from the existing material only,
*  vet these with WT leadership and dev and iterate as needed.
*  map the implementation of these uses cases to the PEP,
*  (if time) seek new use cases that surface technical affordances or research needs not already included. A place to start here would be the WT leadership as many of them are active scientists/researchers in different domains.
The goal of the use cases is to cover every technical feature that we'd like to have developed in WT so we see how it works and would be used from a user perspective.
* BL’s own experiences with internships in the past: 
 * At least one weekly meeting, plus additional mentorship meeting with student
 * Make sure that the student really feels part of something, regular contact with student, meet in a little group once a week
   * Get the interns to do a weekly blogpost: https://notebooks.dataone.org/
   * Set up an infrastructure that works for the student
   * Particular challenge as student is remote
   * Define particular goals for the week
   * DataONE has a Summer Intern Mentor Plan, spells out responsibilities of interns and of mentors
   * Includes an ombudsperson assigned
   * Includes a week-by-week project plan
   * Create google drive readings, what’s already there for internship
   * Readings: assign 
   * Information Science Working Group: set up a meeting in the next couple of weeks
   * Archaeology working group: has a hackathon in August, could bring in me and intern
   * DataONE has all-hands meeting at end of August (New Mexico), two groups who want to colocate (ecologists, archaeologists). Learn about what DataONE has developed, the tools. Intern could be in a good position to observe this, and see how ecologists use DataONE. **    * Archaeologists want to have breakout meetings, work with tools. Have someone from Info Sciences Working Group observe that would be a good opportunity.
